#summary Examples of practical applications of the Avatar Core framework.
#labels Phase-Implementation

The following examples show uses of the Avatar Core framework. They demonstrate features and provide solutions to common (or uncommon) problems.

*In This Document:*
<wiki:toc />


== Live Demos ==

All of these demos were built with [http://www.adobe.com/products/flash/ Flash Professional CS4], but their source code is external for viewing outside of Flash.

=== Simple Feature Selection ===
This demo covers the most common use case for Avatar Core.  You have an avatar character on the left and a set of options listed out on the left for changing the features of the character.  The interface consists of a group of standard Flash controls used to select the different features available to the avatar as defined in an external XML definition.

<wiki:gadget url="http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/SimpleFeatureSelectionGadget.xml" width="600" height="300" border="1" />

Demo source files (ver 0.2.0):
  * [http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/SimpleFeatureSelection.xml SimpleFeatureSelection.xml]
  * [http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/SimpleFeatureSelectionAvatar.as SimpleFeatureSelectionAvatar.as]
  * [http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/SimpleFeatureSelectionEditor.as SimpleFeatureSelectionEditor.as]
Find the full demo download (including FLA and complete Avatar Core framework) in the [http://code.google.com/p/avatarcore/downloads/list Downloads section].

=== Adjust Features ===

This demo shows how the Adjust objects used by Features can be modified to alter the appearance of the Feature.  Select a Feature by clicking on it, then use the control bar at the bottom of the screen to modify it's Adjust.

View live demo:
  * *[http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/AdjustFeatures.html AdjustFeatures.html]*
Source files:
  * [http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/AdjustFeatures.fla AdjustFeatures.fla] (graphical assets only)
  * [http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/AdjustFeatures.as AdjustFeatures.as]

View live demo using Constrain behaviors:
  * *[http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/AdjustConstrainedFeatures.html AdjustConstrainedFeatures.html]*
Source files:
  * [http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/AdjustConstrainedFeatures.fla AdjustConstrainedFeatures.fla] (graphical assets only)
  * [http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/AdjustConstrainedFeatures.as AdjustConstrainedFeatures.as]


=== Drag Features ===

This demo shows how Features can be moved (via Adjust) by dragging them with the mouse.  Making this work can be a little unintuitive, especially when it comes to parenting and behaviors like Mirror.  This approach takes into account those complications.


View live demo:
  * *[http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/DragFeatures.html DragFeatures.html]*
Source files:
  * [http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/DragFeatures.fla DragFeatures.fla] (graphical assets only)
  * [http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/DragFeatures.as DragFeatures.as]


View live demo using Constrain behaviors:
  * *[http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/DragConstrainedFeatures.html DragConstrainedFeatures.html]*
Source files:
  * [http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/DragConstrainedFeatures.fla DragConstrainedFeatures.fla] (graphical assets only)
  * [http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/DragConstrainedFeatures.as DragConstrainedFeatures.as]


== Copy And Paste Demos ==

These examples can each be run and tested, as is, so long as your compiler/authoring tool is able to reference the Avatar Core framework (as explained in [Installation]).

=== Simple Smiley ===

This is a simple implementation of an Avatar defined in XML using loaded SWF art in Features positioned with Adjust objects.

{{{
import com.myavatareditor.avatarcore.*;
import com.myavatareditor.avatarcore.display.*;
import com.myavatareditor.avatarcore.xml.*;

var avatarXML:XML =
}}}
{{{
	<Avatar xmlns="com.myavatareditor.avatarcore">
		<Feature>
			<art src="http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/images/smiley_eye.swf" />
			<adjust x="-20" y="-20" />
		</Feature>
		<Feature>
			<art src="http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/images/smiley_eye.swf" />
			<adjust x="20" y="-20" />
		</Feature>
		<Feature>
			<art src="http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/images/smiley_mouth.swf" />
			<adjust y="20" />
		</Feature>
		<Feature>
			<art zIndex="-1" src="http://www.myavatareditor.com/avatarcore/demo/images/smiley_head.swf" />
		</Feature>
	</Avatar>;
}}}
{{{
var xmlParser:XMLDefinitionParser = new XMLDefinitionParser();
var avatar:Avatar = xmlParser.parse(avatarXML) as Avatar;

var avatarDisplay:AvatarDisplay = new AvatarDisplay(avatar);
avatarDisplay.x = 100;
avatarDisplay.y = 100;
addChild(avatarDisplay);
}}}